
While attempting to tidy the Farm data we received from Bridget Meigs, the Farm manager, we discovered that there was not a sufficient number of variables for us to perform a meaningful data analysis project. Therefore, we have shifted gears to looking at U.S. Colleges using the College Scorecard compiled by the U.S. Department of Education (https://collegescorecard.ed.gov/data/).

This vast data set contains detailed information on seemingly every college in the United States; from admission rates, to percent of students who receive government loans, and even to religious affiliation of the college.

We downloaded the data off of the College Scorecard website and opened the csv files in Excel to read through the columns. We decided just to use the file for the 2014-2015 school year so far to ease the data mining burden. However, the file had thousands of columns of variables, so we wrote a simple code to create a smaller, tidy table. First, we created an array in which the data was sorted to only contain schools with the HIGHDEG factor equaling 3 or 4. The variable HIGHDEG represents the highest degree achievable at that institution. To narrow our focus, we chose 3 and 4, because they represent schools offering bachelor’s degrees and graduate degrees respectively. Therefore, we’re focusing on 4 year institutions only, and therefore called the resulting array “FourYearColleges.”

Next, we sorted the table again, by using the dplyr select feature to only select a certain set of variables that we wanted to look at. This provided us with a smaller and neater table. That being said, the resulting array still has several thousand observations, due to the overwhelming amount of colleges in the country. We chose the following variables (written as they appear in the data set): HIGHDEG ( highest degree offered), INSTNM (institution name), CITY, STABBR (state abbreviation) , LATITUDE, LONGITUDE, LOCALE (city, rural, etc) , UG (undergraduate enrollment,), UGDS ( enrollment of degree-seeking undergraduates), ADM_RATE (admission rate), C150_4 (completion rate for first-time, full-time students at four-year institutions) , SAT_AVG (SAT score average), UGDS_BLACK, UGDS_WHITE, UGDS_HISP, UGDS_ASIAN, UGDS_AIAN, UGDS_AIAN (Total share of enrollment of undergraduate degree-seeking students who are black, white, Hispanic, Asian, American Indian/Alaska Native), RELAFFIL (Religious Affiliation), COSTT4_A, PCTPELL (percent of students receiving Pell Grants), and PCTFLOAN (percent of students with federal loans). 




